---
layout: post
title: Ways To secure cloud:TPM and HSM
---

A TPM ,also called a Trusted Platform Module is a hardware chip installed in a computer system which stores encoding information and keys which your system may need for full disc encryption .This means when a hard drive is cloned ,it won’t be readable when connected to another machine .
Each TPM contains the following:
RSA key pair or Endorsement Key :It is a RSA key pair which cannot be accessed by the system .
Storage Root Key: It is generated with the help of endorsement key when the administrator takes over a system .
AIK or Attestation Root Key: It hashes firmware and software before execution ,when connection to network these hashes are verified and a mismatch leads to no connection establishment ,preventing them from being tampered.

## Types of TPM

### Discrete TPM
They are considered most secure TPM chips.It is integrated in a computer’s motherboard ,though may need BIOS to enable the Functionality.
### Integrated TPM
They are part of other chips.Intel has integrated TPM in some of its chips.
### Firmware TPM
They are TPM modules implemented in which are implemented in protected software.It uses the CPU resources and so no separate chip is needed.
### Software TPM
They are basically software emulators of the TPM chips.These are vulnerable to their own software bugs and have dependencies on their environment.
### Virtual TPM
VTPM have cryptographic capabilities for virtual machines.This virtual environment can also be on a cloud.
## Securing cloud with encryption
Now ,we know TPM is basically a chip that helps secure a computer system.In case of cloud, similar technologies like VTPMs ,HSM and KMS’s are used. VTPM is basically a solution which cryptographic processing capabilities which can act as a TPM for a virtual machine. HSMs , on the other hand ,stand for Hardware Security Modules and are USB devices attached to secure segments of a network.KMS, or Key management system is a relatively new technology which helps implement cryptography across different platforms.For big cloud infrastructures,HSM and KMS are preferred.
## HSM (Hardware Security Module)
It is connected to a secure network segment as a trusted server.This device cannot be cloned or be interfered by external code,hence are quite secure devices. HSM are general purpose devices which allow multiple security options for multiple users depending on how technology has been implemented.They also conceal cryptographic functions they perform hence providing even more security.
## KMS (Key Management Service)
These are modern implementations of cryptographic systems and can be operated across different cloud platforms and environments .These help manage multiple systems with the help of a single solution and are quite useful in cloud platforms.
There are other vendor specific solutions to provide security on cloud systems.Each of these solutions has its limitations and no one solution can be called best since the conditions of deployment will define the requirements and the needs solution.
